README.md, before:

# Sanaharava

[![Sponsored](https://img.shields.io/badge/chilicorn-sponsored-brightgreen.svg?logo=data%3Aimage%2Fpng%3Bbase64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA4AAAAPCAMAAADjyg5GAAABqlBMVEUAAAAzmTM3pEn%2FSTGhVSY4ZD43STdOXk5lSGAyhz41iz8xkz2HUCWFFhTFFRUzZDvbIB00Zzoyfj9zlHY0ZzmMfY0ydT0zjj92l3qjeR3dNSkoZp4ykEAzjT8ylUBlgj0yiT0ymECkwKjWqAyjuqcghpUykD%2BUQCKoQyAHb%2BgylkAyl0EynkEzmkA0mUA3mj86oUg7oUo8n0k%2FS%2Bw%2Fo0xBnE5BpU9Br0ZKo1ZLmFZOjEhesGljuzllqW50tH14aS14qm17mX9%2Bx4GAgUCEx02JySqOvpSXvI%2BYvp2orqmpzeGrQh%2Bsr6yssa2ttK6v0bKxMBy01bm4zLu5yry7yb29x77BzMPCxsLEzMXFxsXGx8fI3PLJ08vKysrKy8rL2s3MzczOH8LR0dHW19bX19fZ2dna2trc3Nzd3d3d3t3f39%2FgtZTg4ODi4uLj4%2BPlGxLl5eXm5ubnRzPn5%2Bfo6Ojp6enqfmzq6urr6%2Bvt7e3t7u3uDwvugwbu7u7v6Obv8fDz8%2FP09PT2igP29vb4%2BPj6y376%2Bu%2F7%2Bfv9%2Ff39%2Fv3%2BkAH%2FAwf%2FtwD%2F9wCyh1KfAAAAKXRSTlMABQ4VGykqLjVCTVNgdXuHj5Kaq62vt77ExNPX2%2Bju8vX6%2Bvr7%2FP7%2B%2FiiUMfUAAADTSURBVAjXBcFRTsIwHAfgX%2FtvOyjdYDUsRkFjTIwkPvjiOTyX9%2FAIJt7BF570BopEdHOOstHS%2BX0s439RGwnfuB5gSFOZAgDqjQOBivtGkCc7j%2B2e8XNzefWSu%2BsZUD1QfoTq0y6mZsUSvIkRoGYnHu6Yc63pDCjiSNE2kYLdCUAWVmK4zsxzO%2BQQFxNs5b479NHXopkbWX9U3PAwWAVSY%2FpZf1udQ7rfUpQ1CzurDPpwo16Ff2cMWjuFHX9qCV0Y0Ok4Jvh63IABUNnktl%2B6sgP%2BARIxSrT%2FMhLlAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)](http://spiceprogram.org/)

Sanaharava (eng. Wordsweeper) is a Finnish word-finding puzzle game inspired by [Sanalouhos of Helsingin Sanomat](https://www.hs.fi/pelit/art-2000010229611.html). In the game the player tries to form words by connecting adjacent letters in a grid. Letters can be connected horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. The game is complete once all letters in the grid have been used (exactly once) to form valid words.

## Getting Started

This project uses VSCode devcontainers for development. To get started:

1. Install [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and the [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
2. Clone this repository
3. Open in VS Code and click "Reopen in Container" when prompted
4. Run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to play the game.

Commit message:

feat: add score tracking and highscore system
- Implement score calculation based on letter usage percentage
- Track start time and completion time for each player
- Lock scores at 100% completion (no further updates)
- Sort highscores by percentage and elapsed time
- Add real-time Firebase listeners for live leaderboard updates
- Document highscore system in README.md and AGENTS.md
- Include helper functions for time formatting

README.md, after:

# Sanaharava

[![Sponsored](https://img.shields.io/badge/chilicorn-sponsored-brightgreen.svg?logo=data%3Aimage%2Fpng%3Bbase64%2CiVBORw0KGgoAAAANSUhEUgAAAA4AAAAPCAMAAADjyg5GAAABqlBMVEUAAAAzmTM3pEn%2FSTGhVSY4ZD43STdOXk5lSGAyhz41iz8xkz2HUCWFFhTFFRUzZDvbIB00Zzoyfj9zlHY0ZzmMfY0ydT0zjj92l3qjeR3dNSkoZp4ykEAzjT8ylUBlgj0yiT0ymECkwKjWqAyjuqcghpUykD%2BUQCKoQyAHb%2BgylkAyl0EynkEzmkA0mUA3mj86oUg7oUo8n0k%2FS%2Bw%2Fo0xBnE5BpU9Br0ZKo1ZLmFZOjEhesGljuzllqW50tH14aS14qm17mX9%2Bx4GAgUCEx02JySqOvpSXvI%2BYvp2orqmpzeGrQh%2Bsr6yssa2ttK6v0bKxMBy01bm4zLu5yry7yb29x77BzMPCxsLEzMXFxsXGx8fI3PLJ08vKysrKy8rL2s3MzczOH8LR0dHW19bX19fZ2dna2trc3Nzd3d3d3t3f39%2FgtZTg4ODi4uLj4%2BPlGxLl5eXm5ubnRzPn5%2Bfo6Ojp6enqfmzq6urr6%2Bvt7e3t7u3uDwvugwbu7u7v6Obv8fDz8%2FP09PT2igP29vb4%2BPj6y376%2Bu%2F7%2Bfv9%2Ff39%2Fv3%2BkAH%2FAwf%2FtwD%2F9wCyh1KfAAAAKXRSTlMABQ4VGykqLjVCTVNgdXuHj5Kaq62vt77ExNPX2%2Bju8vX6%2Bvr7%2FP7%2B%2FiiUMfUAAADTSURBVAjXBcFRTsIwHAfgX%2FtvOyjdYDUsRkFjTIwkPvjiOTyX9%2FAIJt7BF570BopEdHOOstHS%2BX0s439RGwnfuB5gSFOZAgDqjQOBivtGkCc7j%2B2e8XNzefWSu%2BsZUD1QfoTq0y6mZsUSvIkRoGYnHu6Yc63pDCjiSNE2kYLdCUAWVmK4zsxzO%2BQQFxNs5b479NHXopkbWX9U3PAwWAVSY%2FpZf1udQ7rfUpQ1CzurDPpwo16Ff2cMWjuFHX9qCV0Y0Ok4Jvh63IABUNnktl%2B6sgP%2BARIxSrT%2FMhLlAAAAAElFTkSuQmCC)](http://spiceprogram.org/)

Sanaharava (eng. Wordsweeper) is a Finnish word-finding puzzle game inspired by [Sanalouhos of Helsingin Sanomat](https://www.hs.fi/pelit/art-2000010229611.html). In the game the player tries to form words by connecting adjacent letters in a grid. Letters can be connected horizontally, vertically, or diagonally. The game is complete once all letters in the grid have been used (exactly once) to form valid words.

## Features

- **Daily Puzzles**: New AI-generated word puzzle every day
- **Real-time Highscores**: Compete with friends and see live score updates
- **Simple Registration**: Just enter your name to join the leaderboard - no email required
- **Multi-device Support**: Copy your token to continue playing on another device
- **Progress Tracking**: Completion percentage and time tracked automatically

### Highscore System

Register with a player name to track your progress on the daily leaderboard. Your score is calculated based on:

- **Percentage**: How many letters you've used (goal: 100%)
- **Completion Time**: How quickly you solved the puzzle

Once you reach 100%, your completion time is locked - you can still explore alternate solutions without affecting your score. The leaderboard shows the top players, sorted by percentage and completion time.

## Getting Started

This project uses VSCode devcontainers for development. To get started:

1. Install [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and the [Dev Containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)
2. Clone this repository
3. Open in VS Code and click "Reopen in Container" when prompted
4. Run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to play the game.
